X. BOX   

or, “workaholics”, or, “effect of altruism”

0. Instantiation!

Let me spin you a yarn, dear reader, of the sudden appearance of my glorious benefactor!

I, 5’2, was working at a chain sandwich shop, “Samwiches”, in some medium-sized town, let’s call it “Whitehaven”, square in the asshole of Ozarkia. The middle. The decor bled neon, attitude-laden pleasantries and twisted aphorisms shooting through the reader like subatomic particles, never colliding with anything capable of sensory processing, nay, even a simple “vibe check”. Our quote unquote leader, the titular man who had never met anyone who I had met, was one Horatio Sam, who seemed large but not jolly, shrewd. His hollow eyes blared at all times, via larger-than-life portrait above the make-line. He was the first white guy to think of putting avocado on a sandwich, and with the millions he generated he spent his latter days hunting exotic game in foreign countries, having sold the company to Dining Style Inc. There existed a photograph of him balls-deep in a dead lioness that we were briefed on in hiring, told to emphatically deny. That was the only thing we were briefed on. His gaze lit no spark of ambition within me, dear reader. 

I was a vicious stoner, diametrically opposed to the idea of doing anything, sans “sparking up” or playing Let’s Go! Pets 3 on my Gaming Mobile Tablet. Oh mercy, I was a lost cause! I made 300 dollars a week, living free and comfortable at my mother’s house, spending it all on joysticks and noisemakers. After I dropped out sophomore year, leaving behind a sizable Women in Journalism scholarship, I languished in stasis 18 coronaviral months, setting my writing pen in the chest-of-drawers by my bedside, next to all my other, indefinitely suspended, dreams. What follows, is the series of events since then that have spurred me to relift it, to once again document. 

1. A Surface-Level Anecdote, So The Reader Might Glean A Mote Of Insight Into The Character Of One Damon Noid.

I was engaged in conversation with my coworker, Aidan. Aidan, like most of my coworkers, belongs to the Beta Omicron Chi fraternity, at PSU a little down the road. Most of these types blend together for me, but Aidan stuck out enough that I remembered his name. Mostly, he was the only one even close to my height (he was 5'4), meaning I managed to see more than his chin, which, like the rest of them, was pointy, and irregularly bearded. Anyway, Aidan began to give me the breakdown re. the previous day, a day in which he found himself again encased within this self-same establishment. 

He was working with Damon Noid, a weirdo with Minnesota plates and a microchip on his shoulder, 5’6. Despite the lax nature of the “Sandwich Boys” uniform, he was breaking the dress code in several ways, pajama pants littered with holes, Deadpool shirt, he smelled bad. The managers, newly declawed what with that aforementioned Covid virus, couldn’t really say shit and Damon seemed like he knew it. Aidan asked him what his deal was. “I’m kind of a piece of shit, man”, Damon said with alacrity that felt forced, unnatural. He was older than most of the college-kid coworkers, at least 25 or 26, and already balding. “I’m here ‘cause of an ex-wife restraining order.” It was a four person shift, with one other indistinguishable frat guy named Lodin and this annoying nerd Francis Bauer, maybe 6’1, heavyset, smelly, and greasy. I had long ago convinced the manager, D., not to schedule me with him when he could avoid it ‘cause he followed this girl I know home once, but on the rare occasions we did work together he was resolutely disinterested in anything I had to say or do. That was actually pretty nice, I could just sit on my phone 80% of the time, pampering my virtual anteater. Anyway, Lodin and Aidan were both out on delivery, and Aidan got back first. He clocked in to a silent shop, an egregious abnormality, and tiptoed into the lobby. He saw, for a few brief moments, Francis and Damon, still, standing, facing each other. Francis’ shirt, as per usual, failed to cover the full extent of his drooping stomach fat, and the spillover was being held with both hands by Damon. They were maintaining electric eye contact, and seemed to be enjoying themselves stoically, up until they noticed Aidan and scrambled, yelling and rustling shit up in service of a doomed impulse to distract, to come up with a different thing to talk about. 

2. I  Witness A Crime

Aidan, having finished the story, asked, “Ain’t that some shit?” It really wasn’t, I’ve seen worse shit on the local news, but it was fine. 

I said, “Yeah, gas anecdote.” 

Damon was back at work tonight, but instead of Francis we had Geraldo, who was unspeakably attractive, and sold weed, psychs, and pills. He was in a committed relationship, still, with his girlfriend from high school, which ensured that we rarely talked. He managed that night, with a lovely “hands off” approach. We were busy, but during a lull I introduced myself to Damon, careful not to reveal that I knew his name. He awkwardly informed me that he was bisexual and a furry, and scrunched his face up like a rat, rubbing his temples.

He walked away from me and toward Geraldo, grimace upside-downifying into a radiant smile. “Evening, officer, wondered if I might acquire myself five of those little pieces of paper we discussed the other day.” Geraldo grinned goofy, and led Damon to the back. They came out with three little pieces of paper, Damon having eaten two. He made that much clear to me once he got back. With malaise and dread at all his various tips, he asked, “you do acid?”

In fact, I did “do” acid, not quite habitually, but certainly enough that I knew not to drop after 6, 8 at the latest. Besides, the garish shop bore a cloud of hostile energy visible even to the unfettered eye. I considered asking if I could get a tab, just, like, for later, but I was broke. 

3. I Commit a Crime

At that point, a karenish woman ushered in a steady trickle of like-minds, via the drive-thru. Geraldo took his time with pride, contentedly performing over the intercom, register, and makeline, not quite simultaneously. He had come back off break ten minutes previous, smelling of bad eggs and fumes. Damon, ticking like a bomb, grabbed a cup of ice water, and took off his apron. I could tell that he planned on smoking marijuana, because he told Aidan, “I’m going to go smoke some marijuana on the roof.” He asked if anyone cared to join. Geraldo, after a moment of consideration, did not, and Aidan ignored the question entirely. I glanced around, and thought critically for a moment. I had a girly pepper spray keychain on my person, as well as several sharp objects and a whistle in my purse. Further, this Damon dude was empty behind the eyes, and if he tried to grab me up on the roof I could just holler. I accompanied him up the ladder, politely toting the comically-oversized-for-stealth-purposes bong. We faced four weathered folding chairs beat in by the elements, all facing a central table. The view up there was unremarkable: the sunset likely would have been beautiful if an orange cloudy haze didn’t shield all but the closest strip-mall from view. He packed a generous bowl of maybe 0.6 grams, with a pinch of rosin plucked with tweezers from a little dab-case. He gave me greens, so I didn’t start things by expressing sexual disinterest. 

I asked, “What brought you to Arkansas?” His parents, as it turns out, moved here a couple years back. His ex-wife got all his friends in the divorce, and the process for transferring to a different state’s Samwiches was simple, informal. We employees know a like-mind on sight.

He asked me, “Do you go to school?” This was a likely attempt to suss out whether I was ‘legal’, which I was, albeit uneager to share this information. 

I said, “Yeah, but I’m on break right now,” keeping it vague and moving on. “What do you do in your spare time?”

He smirked like he was formulating a half truth. “I spend a lot of time on reddit,” he said confidently, “I’m basically a bastard spawn of the internet, would be the best way to put it.” This was what piqued my interest. Earlier that year a bunch of odious incels, forumheads, and creepers pulled a scam with the stock-trading app, jacking up the price of this one radio parts company a thousand fold. The crypto nerds kept the wave going, and basically issued millions on millions to those “bastard spawn” who spent enough time online to have heard about it early. It was probably the first occurrence in world history of a massive pattern of wealth redistribution towards the most annoying portion of the population, without regard for class or vocation. This man, indeed, was profoundly annoying. We finished the bowl, decided to leave the bong there, and headed back into the store, putting on aprons, I tied my hair back. The line at the drive through had not shrunken at any point, and was now about 5 cars long. We slung lackadaisically, insulting customers to their faces. 

An in-shop came in, a three-or-four instance-per-shift rarity in the viral days. It was Hal, a big fucking guy with bones for teeth, a rootin’-tootin’ white man who was always trying to strike up a god-damned conversation, but gave every employee he could find a 20-bill in December. Nobody liked him, but you had to paint a smile on, cause he was friends with the father of the middling 45-year-old stoner who, on paper, owned the establishment. Damon began to take his order. He always wanted the double beef sub with extra mayo, pickles and onions, hold the cheese. He paid with a 20 and told Damon to keep the change, adding “I’ll bet that made your night, didn’t it?” 

Damon, scowling, said “No way man. My money makes money that makes more than that in a day. I’m just here to keep myself company.”

Hal was upset. His pet peeve was a lack of subservience in others, and the hairs on his arm were standing on end on little goose pimples. He wasn’t gonna yell, again, as last time he tried something like that his daughter found a video of it on SlipSlop, a short-form content generation algorithm popular with the Covid kids. He merely stopped talking, made a mental note not to pay the dirty white guy who smelled like weed, and scooted out promptly. We were impressed. He said he lied, to get Hal out of the store, but once 9 rolled around and Damon and I clocked out, he led me again up to the roof, promising more weed and “the whole story.”

5. The Transcript Of The Interview I Conducted With Damon On The Night Of 2021.03.25 [CONDENSED FOR BREVITY]

NARRATRIX: Do you mind if I record you? I’m something of an aspiring author. 

DAMON: Go for it, just don’t tell any Samwichers. I just don’t want to get treated any differently, you know. Always getting asked for money and stuff. I’ve seen it all before. 

NARRATRIX: *nodding, compassionate* I truly understand. 

DAMON: Thank you, you’re sweet. 

10. Damon Allows Me To Visit His Storage Facility, I Befriend Four Members Of The Local Homeless Population, And I Am Offered A Job

11. I Decide To Mull Over Damon’s Offer, And Call Up My One Friend Who’s Still In College

12. Steven And I’s First Day On The Job

13. Damon And I Do Some More Drugs, And I Am Promoted

14. I Deal With A Meth Guy

15. Damon And I Court Some Investors Who Came To Visit From The Internet





16. 

20. 


alan and the cia would like to utilize the massive cubic building housing over 29,997 formerly homeless people on the ocean of the san silicon bay as a data cultivation firm for a neural network. they use vr helmets that are “freaky, don’t feel like screens” and navigate social situations. they do, creating a functional, constantly learning, “artificially emotional and reasonable” program. this ai is very popular and utilized in recreational programs. damon and the likable band of freeloaders (the narrator key among them, the “highest paid sex worker in history” as sort of money laundering through an app) fail to properly maintain the building over time, consistently lacking in important utilities, functional transit, and options to be outside. nevertheless, it touts as a sustainable lifestyle, with “work” only 4 days a week and provided housing food and 60$ “entertainment” budget, as well as furnishings utilities communist grocery store cantina “public transit” and online school. things skip ahead a year when the narrator goes to jail. damon and alan are lsd and dmt-ridden wrecks. most essential managerial functions are performed by cia creeps, some functions performed by formerly homeless as labor-for-housing such as cooking, cleaning, etc. these jobs are highly desirable. damon lives in the cube in an 8 bedroom suite on the top middle. The narrator accepts a sinecure briefly, before getting ousted by alan, who makes her a peon. She notices that things are crumbling. She makes plans to leave the island and return to Ozarkia, but the complex begins to crumble as she sleeps three nights before her next lease begins. She makes it to the rails, where no more trains are running and a horde of people walk to the mainland, the electrified third rail peppered with bodies. It ends with her back in Arkansas, pursuing a coding degree in 2024.


protag : kaylee flaherty
damon noid
alan scent
d (edward dupont)





n. Fall of Crypto




V. TOE 
or, “bottomless pit”, or, “wo, eschaton”, or, “avarice”.

Nothing, besides remains. 

I will conclude by wrapping up that last loose end, The Oaf with the infinite gas. he took it to the chest. Spent the next couple of years being professionally depressed, got pregnant too young, and, for some fucking reason, at that point he decided to become a big-rig driver. There are two reasons that this idea burst beyond the pale of oafishness, into the realm of duncery. 

The first, of course, was his rapidly being-born child, who they planned to name Kim regardless of gender. The oaf and his oafwife cared deeply about gender equity: in a former life, the latter had been a bisexual warrior, deeply involved in causes furthering discourse on gender and sexuality. They planned on dressing the baby in an ugly puke-green for the first 6 years of its life, and taking care to always use the pronoun “it”. Driving a long haul, of course, would remove the oaf from this Greco-modern parenting arrangement for half the month, every month. The oafwife hadn’t really considered this, but she quickly became brutally depressed when left alone, usually falling into a drug-addled stupor within a few hours. She could have been a wonderful, caring mother, if conditions had been optimal. This arrangement, regrettably, was suboptimal, because of that and this:

The second. That poisonously racist man Takyon D’Ursula who Oaf once idolized was very close to finishing his faulty self-driving automobile tech now, in 2035, and planned to implement it immediately in all big-rigs in his oeuvre. Given all the costs this would cut, he had already made room on his trophy shelf in his bacchanalia chamber for whatever the shareholders decided to reward him with. As such, he couldn’t be stopped by anything short of a bullet. In sum, The Oaf decided to support his family as a belly dancer on the Costa Concordia, willfully ignoring the feverish bleats of the wetsuit-clad saxophone player. 

This job appealed to a couple of the oaf’s lifelong dreams. He had always wanted to own property, and this wasn’t quite the same, as of course Takyon had made detached single-family homes, and general property ownership, utterly inaccessible. It was pretty close, though, and property that carried with it a societal function. He could be a cargo mover, and in a year and a half he could keep all of the profits. This was tangible. His mother had worked for the internet and his father had worked for the government, two clandestine, psychedelic organizations that drew power from blood and suffering. He wanted a job in which he could happily send his child off to follow in his footsteps. Really, the best of intentions.

—-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“You step to THE FUCKING WAY and get your fucking shits removed, OK bronco? Repulsive.”

He proudly exited the match to the victory ditty. THE WAY was his name in the game and, coincidentally, in real life. Dr. Way sat, now quiet, in the downstairs master bedroom’s tv area, in which he was alone. He’d never get that mad when his sons were home, but at present they were out at the local trampoline park with the babysitter. This was his favorite part of the week. His wife was doing yoga with a horde of yoga-doers, and the rescued pit bull was secure in his kennel. He could game at other points in the week, but this was when he could yell, which was to him the entire point. His little military simulator never failed to arouse this level of emotionality, perhaps because he hadn’t been in the military himself. He was what you might call an “asset”, were you an ass. 

He taught Schizophrenology at a small college, and had the role of funneling bright youths with useless degrees and nowhere to go into the CIA. Usually, he’d hook them with the promise of life in a large city, like Washington, DC or New York, where they would be free to be bisexual or whatever, it doesn’t matter. Then they’d start by gathering data, recruiting people, nothing immediately hostile. It was better if they had something to prove, better still something to lose. The real shit was left to those who excelled in this rung, which Dr. Way never had. He wasn’t mired in quite enough tragedy to be easily taken advantage of, you see, and so the CIA kept him relegated to his starting position, collecting a meager three thousand a month on the side for dealing with the devil. He never would have met anyone I was related to. Anyway, the guy he was yelling at happened to be our very own Oaf, who played Gunpowder Commando: Ultimate Operation with fanatical gusto and devotion, which almost made up for paltry skill. As he listened to this needly voice lay into him, the Oaf broke into a smile. Ordinarily, he was not above crying at his game, but at this moment he was so content with his life trajectory that there was no possible insecurity for Dr. Way to pick at. He exited the arena, cutting Dr. Way off mid-sentence, and closed the game.

“Are you excited for tomorrow?”, the oaf asked his oafwife, who had been sitting next to him the entire time.


Eventually all of that esoteric bullshit came to an end. The massive force swept it all away like an ill-placed sandcastle, which was tragic but natural. Those unable to stop mourning found themselves caught in that self-same wave, staring vacantly onto what once was as their bodies became himalayan pink salt lamps to some cruel zoomerian god. The only remaining humans were those who managed abnormally high levels of ignorance and luck, which brings up Buster.

In late 2024, Buster called a phone number that he saw on the back of an 18-wheeler while driving to his Xanax plug’s house, a number touting a too-good-to-be-true starting salary and vacation time that he would kill for. If technology had continued to progress unfettered, this truck driving position would have been automated by 2027 at the absolute latest, and he would have been stuck in debt, paying off a truck taken from him by a machine learning algorithm. In this likely event, Buster would have been stuck living off of 55% of his current paycheck, moved back in with his parents, and languished for a couple of years before overdosing on whatever prescription drug made that possible for him first, or some home-grown methamphetamine solution if nothing came in due time. Luckily for him, society collapsed, and society collapsed at a highly opportune time. He was just past Minnesota on I-90, blistering along at his usual 90, when his “real ass hip hop” playlist came to an abrupt stop right as the crescendo of Eminem’s “Not Afraid” was about to hit. He began to open Apple Music, throwing caution to the wind, when he swerved violently to avoid hitting a Tesla in front of him, which had seemingly stopped dead in its tracks simultaneously to Eminem. He began to suspect that both of these events were caused by the same thing, a level of abstract reasoning unusual for him, but he was under fire. 

At this point, he had gotten back on the highway, his turn signal already on for the Sioux Falls exit two miles down the road. A minute later, he arrived at the Flying J, planning to house an entire vape cartridge, as was his typical routine when faced with any situation more stressful than a medium-stakes game of checkers. He walked in, glanced at the food, and got to the counter, and found no cashier. In fact, there were no visible employees anywhere. He glanced around at the rest of the customer population noting their frenetic energy and lack of payment, and elected to go with the flow, stealing as many vapes as he could carry and bumbling back to his truck. His concern was exacerbated, and he couldn’t google it because at this point his phone had stopped working entirely. Reluctantly, he again exited his truck to ask the frenzied populace what was going on. 

“Why is everyone acting so crazy right now?”, he asked no one in particular within a crowd that had amassed near a gas pump that was spewing uncontrollably.

“To begin with, both wifi and cellular data have eliminated themselves in an Icarusian satellite cascade”, said Ian, the one guy in the crowd who was wearing glasses. “This did away with a lot of forms of social control, thus, the revelry. Further exacerbating the issue, this lack of communication means that, for at least as long if not longer than it takes for a human being to starve to death, supply chains are down for the count. Thus, the pillaging”. He gestured toward another crowd that was large enough to be seen across the street at the Burger King, seemingly having finished ransacking the place and beginning to set the building on fire. Buster only followed about 30% of that gay little speech, but that was enough for him to get the broader picture.

“What are you gonna do then”, asked Buster, to which Ian replied, “I’ve got some canned food at a location I won’t disclose, and a gun, the location of which I will disclose”, he said, as he showed him the bit of pistol sticking out of my waistband. “Mostly I just want to see how shit’s gonna hit the fan”. Buster considered his position, and found that he, too, was sitting pretty. He already had a mostly full tank, which could take him anywhere within a 2000 mile radius, pretty much anywhere in America or Canada. The back was full of containers of canola oil, which, to him, seemed ample calories for waiting out this little sideshow. He had that box of easily over 50, maybe over 100 shitty little vape cartridges, which would realistically last him about 2 weeks. He considered his obligations. His mother and father meant very little to him. By the time he had moved out at 23 there seemed to be a mutual feeling that they should go their separate ways. He respected them, sure, but he didn’t really feel any need to know that they were alright. His friends were probably fine, they all either had jobs or sold drugs and could probably weather this. He was alone! Joy! He went back into the store and scooped up the last hundred vape cartridges, flung them onto the floor of the cab, and drove, neither toward or away from something. After a couple of hours he began to get hungry, and grabbed a bottle of canola oil from the back. Big sturdy bottle, at least a gallon. It wasn’t particularly pleasant, but Buster didn’t really mind where his calories came from. There was a lot to be excited for!

2 MONTHS LATER

Buster was in pain. The oil gave him energy and nothing else, and his body was beginning to cry out. He had begun seeing things which he suspected were not actually there about a week in, and he lost that reservation about a month in. He spent most of his days driving, mostly out of a lack of other things to do. The highways were barren. He probably passed one person a day, if you believe his perception. The truck was battered. He had gotten in two accidents since the end. One was fine, the other driver died on impact. Perks of a big truck! The other guy was not so lucky, stuck alive in his car. When Buster found him, he began to wish that he had a gun on his person, to put this poor man out of his misery. He shrugged, though, not having one, and fucked off. While he was walking back to his truck along the highway, he found a large, inviting box, seemingly about big enough to fit a baby and a half. He decided to open it when he passed it again on his way back, finding the box to contain a moldy, decrepit ventriloquist dummy. While he usually was very hardline against shit like that, he was not in a right state of mind, and against his better judgment put the dummy over his right hand. 

“Hey, it’s me Wacko!”, said Wacko. Buster homer-shrieked and flung the dummy as far as he could, then immediately doubled over in the worst pain of his life. The only respite, he seemed to suddenly know, was to inch closer to Wacko, which he did at a frenzied and enthusiastic lockstep, clearly in distress.


way items

potatoes
garlic
goats -> butter, cheese
chickens
peppers
onions
radishes -> poison
peaches and cherries   -> alcohol, vinegar
wheat
shrooms -> psychedelic and nutritious
cabbage
soy
corn
weed 
poppies


coffee? chocolate? media? 


most spices (molly, sote, and lsd) stockpiled, saffron fresh. he has more tea chocolate and coffee vacuum sealed than he knows what to do with, a lifetime battery with solar power
essentially, butter is difficult, and busters canola stash would be life changing
soil imported a long time ago down 100 feet by way. water from ocean with simple private desalinization

he catches fish


the survivors live off the potatoes garlic seawater. they are malnourished, very little fat, until buster comes along with his vegetable oil. he gives them a crate for 45$, the last human fiat transaction. he strikes a deal with way and his sons, giving up the rest for permanent grazing rights. he tells the survivors, and on having run out of oil they run a heist. way sits on top with a gun. he watches them snatch some peppers and chickens, standing down. when they find the subterranean oil bunker, he slinks after them, shooting rico. now it’s war.


He looked unto the TOE. “You’re fucking puppetmasters?”


i was sitting shoulder-to-shoulder next to this lesbian heiress with a full tank of gas. she thought i was interesting, authentic. i thought she was disdainful, but to be fair, i thought that of almost everyone at the time. i took two puffs off her silicone Rick and Morty pipe, and blew ‘em both out in one exhale like Rowdy Roddy Piper. she 


F. OIL 
or, “paranoid android”, or, “mick ultra”


gwar-ee-too-lum!
a welsh greeting given to one in mourning, which effectively communicates, “i pray that one day your anguish will quintuple, at the dead hands of someone better.”

our towns were all called Llanfairpwllgwyngyll­gogery­chwyrn­drobwll­llan­tysilio­gogo­goch, but that sentiment got four syllables. 

my great-great-grandpappy devaughn jones was in mourning when he left the southwestern corner of Fancy Accent Island in the 1890s. his parents and sisters were involved in a dubious house fire, dubious because precisely zero bodies were found in the rubble, not a trace, not a tooth. he was in a local patch of woods, as he often was, trying to catch a glimpse of an antelope-like creature his schoolmates had convinced him was real over a year before. it supposedly had three massive horns that wove into a triple helix, and could induce a vivid hallucinationatory vision which would instill in the recipient a true feeling of purpose. every rustle, scratch, or trembling was evidence it was near, and anyway he didn’t have much better to do. this “sense of purpose” BS appealed to him, as a gawky Welsh teen with nowhere to go and no one to be. he told his sister, philomena, who was supposed to be watching him that he would be “throwing rocks in the quarry.” she believed this, because she thought he was stupid. He was stupid. on returning to an empty, ashen home, devaughn f

That man bore a Pennsylvanian son, a truly boring man, one Tholomew 




Jane Jones

moon was pretty horrible when you got to know them. they had one of those coy, tragic backstories that folks without one find engrossing. they weren’t from ozarkia, wouldn’t go into much detail about what brought them here. they lived out of that abandoned gas station right next to Exit 58, Oil King, the one with the dilapidated Googie beckoners and  murdered out windows. moon took no efforts to clean up the place. they liked to live in filth.


