"For example, the large-framed woman who tries to go too "femme" is obviously going to have passing difficulties, whereas she might be just fine if she consistently presents herself as an outdoorsy outgoing amazon. All postop women face these issues, and must fine-tune their presentations until they find a style and persona that works for them."

"Continuity of employment during transition and being able to continue past personal relationships can provide wonderful support for TS women who are open during their transitions and in the early years afterwards. However, this advantage often comes at the cost of being treated as "trannies" instead of as women. Their strong connections with the past often marginalize them in their new gender and keep such women from fully assimilating. "

"Having to constantly invent cover stories takes its own toll. The woman has to constantly remember what she said to whom, and work hard to avoid getting caught in "lies". For this reason, it's usually best to hedge in the direction of saying less, rather than inventing more. However, if you invent little and say little about your past, then that itself is a big "tell" that you're concealing something. Gradually over time, most postop women come up with a "standardized past" that seems to work for them based on past experience. It become ever easier to handle new situations as they come along. This is like becoming a practiced spy who never blows their cover. "

"Postop women should keep careful track of how much time they spend on-line each day interacting with other "T's", and try to wean themselves from spending so much time there. Any reductions a woman makes in the "amount of time on-line with other TS's" could then be yet another measure of "how well she is doing". That's not to say that she shouldn't have a few really close TS friends, and maintain contact with TS web activity as a valuable source of information. It's just best to avoid spending hours each day in chat rooms and e-mail groups as a substitute for getting a real life. "


"focusing on learning how to make new friends - - - forcing yourself to join clubs and activities - - until you find some good ones and start making new friends - -
 
- - - joining clubs based on recreational or hobby interests - - and doing lots of traveling - - are also good ways to fight loneliness too - - -
 
- - - these things can help a woman snap out of loneliness - - - and help set the stage for starting over socially and making more new friends in the larger world - - - however, she will have to force herself to do lots of new things in order to break out of her social confines and meet lots of people and gradually gain an identity in new social circles - - -in the meantime she must recognize that loneliness may stalk her for quite a while - - - "

"Unfortunately, transsexual women often lose promising relationships if they are honest with a partner and tell about their past, whether they tell early or wait till later. A woman can compensate for this disadvantage by being more active and getting better at starting relationships than most other women are. Nothing ventured, nothing gained - - - and what counts in love is eventually finding someone - - - even if there are some heartaches along the way - - - "

"Getting into new sports, and becoming very physically active, and then discovering that this helps, not hinders, one's physical appearance and presence as a woman, can be very rewarding and validating and can greatly boost one's morale. It brings on a new sense of complete freedom as a woman, especially freedom from the fear that one has to be very sedentary and not at all "physical", or else one will "bulk-up" again. The development of a more female form by getting fit and healthy then further confirms the reality of one's physical gender transition. "

"Do you still work where you transitioned? Or still live in the same house or apartment? Do you still hang out with your transition-time friends? Still go to the same places for recreation and socializing? If so, then all these things keep you in a "comfort zone" that is either in the "old country" or in the "immigrant community" in the new country, and this can interfere greatly with later assimilation. Remember, if there are too many things in your environment that constantly remind you of the past, then it's more difficult to take all the little steps you must to assimilate. "


"How about shopping? Do you hate going shopping for clothes? If so, that's not a good sign. Not that you want to be into clothes as fetishwear like a crossdresser, that's not the idea here. But you really should find a sweet simple joy in shopping, in finding nice clothes that express your personality, or in getting clothes in preparation for going out or taking trips or going to special events. These are things that many women love to do, and the atmospheres of department stores reinforce this simple joyful feeling for many women. One way to move forward and also add some everyday fun to your life, especially if you're feeling down or bored with things, is to do what so many other women do - GO SHOPPING! "


DA  TTC
12  11
21  25
34  34
45  42
53  53