2. This problem is about an algorithm for the unweighted M AX − SAT problem. Let α = (√5 − 1)/2 =
0.618... be the reciprocal of the golden ratio. It satisfies the equation α = 1 − α2.
Assume that the expression does not contain two contradictory clauses of size 1, i.e., it does not contain
both clauses x and ¯x for any variable.
Show that there is a truth assignment which satisfies at least an α fraction of the total weight and such
a truth assignment can be found efficiently.
Hint: assume that the formula contains variables x1, . . . , xn, and that variables x1, . . . , xk occur as clauses
of size 1 (without loss of generality we may assume that in the size 1 clauses they occur unnegated).
Generate a random truth assignment, where the variables x1, . . . , xk are set to 1 with probability α and
the other variables are set to 1 with probability 1/2. Show that every clause is satisfied with probability
at least α.


4. Consider the following algorithm for testing whether an array A of size n is monotonically increasing:
for k = 1 to t
pick a random integer i ∈ {1, . . . , n − 1}
if A[i] > A[i + 1] then reject
accept
Show that if t = O((log n)/ϵ) then this algorithm is not a correct property testing algorithm for mono-
tonicity.
Hint: use an example made up of pieces similarly to the example considered in class for a similar
algorithm.



5. In the two-dimensional bin-packing problem a list of rectangular items
(w1, h1), . . . , (wn, hn)
is given by their width wi and height hi, where wi, hi ≤ 1 for i = 1, . . . , n. The objective is to pack
these items into a semi-infinite strip of width 1 such that the total height of the packing is as small as
possible. It is not allowed to rotate the items. (The semi-infinite strip is the set of points (x, y) in the
plane with 0 ≤ x ≤ 1, y ≥ 0.)
Consider the following next-fit decreasing height (NFDH) algorithm. Order the items according to non-
increasing height. Start putting the items at the bottom of the strip. If the next item doesn’t fit then
open a new level at the top of the first item, and pack items similarly on that level, etc.
Show that the height of the packing produced by this algorithm satisfies
ALG ≤ 2 · OP T + 1.
Hint: let the height of the ith level be hi, the total width of items on the ith level be xi, the width
of the first item on the ith level be yi, and the total area of items on the ith level be ai. Show that
xi + yi+1 > 1, and show that this implies ai + ai+1 > hi+1. What is a lower bound for OPT?



Extra credit problem
Show that the randomized set cover algorithm can be derandomized.
Note: The basic idea is to use the method on conditional expectations. The randomized set cover algorithm
may fail to return a set cover with some small probability. The derandomized version has to return a set cover,
so the derandomization has to make sure that a set cover is returned.
Hint: This is Exercise 5.7 in the textbook, where a detailed hint is given. The following is an addition to
that hint. Let Xj , Z and λ be as in the hint and consider the objective function in the hint. Then it sufficient
to choose λ to be large enough such that E(Pm
j=1 wj Xj + λ Z) < λ.