Listen, I'll give you your list, your summary-style primer on my life, but you're not gonna get bullets or numbers out of me. Besides, I wrote almost all of this on Tuesday without the prompt. My grandmama was the only truly good woman my father ever knew. My mother was truly good, pure-of-heart, Joan-of-Arc style, but he didn't know. Grandmama bore three children to a sinister man I've only heard referred to as "The Gambler." He skipped town, as gamblers are wont to do, and in his place manifested an eerie, grotesque, 6'3 Welsh monster named Grandfather. The details I know on him are hazy. He was expelled from Little Rock Central High School two years before integration for riding a motorcycle down the stairs. He then proceeded to drift, flocking alongside fellow bikers to greener pastures and larger hollowed-out metal spheres. You could just do that in the '50s I guess. He became a uranium prospecter around here out in Nevada, definitely was a CIA asset by this point. He served in Korea and Vietnam (MAC V SOG unit) and, over the next eight years, became a full blown professional CIA assassin. At this point he married Grandmama, who bore him a son followed by a daughter, the eldest of which was Dad. He briefly, here, was "outside" of the CIA, doing a little down-home thing on a lark. He was an unsuccessful farmer (Dad gets PTSD flashbacks yelling about Grandfather with the shovel burying cabbage with aplomb and dead-eyed nostalgia now any time he smells kimchi) and unsuccessful preacher (The only time Dad ever saw Grandfather cry was in the pulpit). After a couple cruddy years of that, Grandfather began to crave postmodern life, and moved the family (sans stepkids, due to he brutally molested his two pre-teen stepdaughters (who don't really keep in touch with the rest of the family) and never really liked methhead Uncle Mitch (who unfortunately does keep in touch)) from base to base, Phillipines and Virginia were the ones that Dad remembered the most vividly. Grandfather just kept killing and molesting, he thought it was regular 'cause he was a CIA guy. My Dad and Aunt got out as soon as they could, Dad was a grunge carpenter who didn't really finish high school, did a lot of drugs, and played guitar. Eventually he decided to emulate my aunt Nona (his one full sibling) and try to go to college, and successfully finagled the UCA Honors program through a destitute, powerful pitch to that Schedler guy from the name of it. He met Mom at this point, who had a less coherent familial background. Her mother was a teen when she had her, and she was adopted by her great-uncle, a truck driver who was only there two weeks out of every month, and his pill-addicted aloof wife Loretta. Mom really did not like to talk about her childhood. Suffice to say money was scarce in Blackwell, AR, and the neoliberal/homogenizing/deculturifying raygun of college was accepted by her with open arms. When Dad met Mom, she was banging her bestie Jennifer, who was (I'm saying this as someone exclusively attracted to men) devastatingly beautiful. Dad didn't really care, that girl on girl shit doesn't like "count", y'know? That's how he explained it to me. Under full scholarship, my parents got codependant and married fast. They always had moxie and grit, always moving on up. My mom had me somewhat young at 25. That was a bad idea: Dad had been chronically infidelious from the get-go, but they were too codependant for anything to be done about that. They're still married, he's still cheating, she's still unhappy with this arrangement. She was teaching at UCA at this point, gender studies, anthro, shit like that. Pronoun shit in 2003. She was a live-in professor in Minton Hall (Dad doing law school), so I spent my first 4 years of life just totally surrounded on all sides by friendly, diverse personalities, all willing to give a cute little baby some attention. I was the equivalent of a campus cat, basically. My mother (who worked hard) just kinda let me wander, and I've still got aunts and uncles to this day from then. Another child comes, and we moved to a more suburban-style suburb, down to Maumelle. Jennifer also took a husband, "Alan," an asshole, and had kids, but she and my mom maintained their best-friendship / tragic-sapphics thing, with Jennifer's children becoming close friends with my brothers and I, and the whole unit becoming something of a "mega-family". My mom thought I was smart cause I read early and was mad autistic, but nevertheless I went to this really godawful charter school run out of a few trailers by some guy who got fired from the LRSSD for overt racism. Went there a while, did the whole "little kid" thing 'till I got tired of it. Jennifer died in 2012. That was when my mother became a nihilist. Her children and "husband", for some reason, began living with another lover that Jennifer had taken, this wild lesbian party-girl med student named Caitlyn. She was good for them, oddly, and in spite of my mother's latent envy and hatred of her she ultimately ceded that "Jennifer's kids needed someone to be there for them and Alan just seems to be boozing." Their whole family skipped town after a couple years, following Caitlyn on her residency. The cooking in my house was always bad. Spaghetti, Hamburger Helper, Chicken and Dumplings, or Beef Potato Stew. The whole mega-family were always athiests, never really directed against swearing. I got pushed ahead two grades right after they left, going directly from sixth to ninth grade. Spent maybe a year and a half in stasis, no friends. This was when The Pain started. I played Risk with myself most days, or roamed around the woods. Eventually I got desperate enough to fall in with a clique of three odious assholes: Michael was a mixed guy in the throws of turmoil and self-hatred due from his super Republican upbringing (white dad hard repub, black mom straightens hair and takes pains to downplay her cultural background), which he channelled into a constant stream of vitriolic jokes and insults. Trevor added to that flame, a wide-grinned creature of infinite jest, rote 4chan alt-right freak who owned guns and loved to advocate for Eric and Dylan's side of the story. There was a fourth, a truly heinous bitch, but if I spent more than a moment or two telling you about her I'd jam a toothpick under my big toenail and kick a wall as hard as I could. I went to college when I was 16, spent about a year gleefully being a slobbering shithead. Covid hit that March, and I suddenly couldn't see anyone for five months (living with grandparents upped the stakes) (There was an exception there, I convinced my mom to let me Floyd protest, which was impactful). Even when I saw people again, I didn't get that neutral good-feeling, that didn't come back for years, still comes and goes. I got that parcel from "Jocko Homo," ending The Pain, and now I'm lingering in ENGC 307, 19 years old. I've tried alcohol, marijuana, LSD, shrooms, E, MDMA, DMT, Ketamine, [DELETED], and [DELETED], and I'm only addicted to two of them now. My >1 hour/day hobbies are biking, writing, and cooking. For work, I go to Hendrix College pursuing a double major in Mathematics and Computer Science, tutor Precal, Cal I, and Cal II to students here, write for The Profile, and (when I need a little extra cash) still sometimes make sandwiches at Jimmy Johns. 



My class president, Andy Arson, is a gauche, sinister young PoliSci major, whose real name and position I have lied about. He cusses often in his mass-email chains, and all of his girlfriends that I've spoken to have left him with horrible tastes in their mouths. The boy, Andy, must nevertheless be hailed a hero, for he tipped the home-spot off to a warrant, to be executed at night, by the Hendrix Office of Public Safety. The neighbors were upset that I had been keeping them up at night, with these awful coughing fits. I had Covid at the beginning of January, and the cough had been steadily growing worse and worse, usually waking me up fitfully at 5 AM. I didn't go to the doctor for a while cause both my parents just lost their jobs. I always had to prop myself sleeping way upright, to get back to sleep, which gave me this horrible neck pain that will still not go away. Anyway, the neighbors called in a weed threat cause my hair's long and I smoke weed. 

Now, because Andy was heroic, the problem was solved, kind of. I put the weed in someone else's car, and there was no issue. I couldn't do the same thing with my estrogen. This dude'd flip if I threw a shoebox full of needles into his car, let alone 2 itty bitty vials of some homebrew shit I got off a lady from the Ukraine. 

(Before you ask - There's two people that I'm aware of on the non-dark net who sell homebrew estrogen in injectible form. One's in Brazil, Lilian. Lilian's fine, no complaints, and every day I pray for her well-being. Lena, the latter, was a little bit cheaper, and my preferred option. No one is sure if she is still alive. Her website hasn't been updated since the war as far as I can tell. I found a reddit post, like, right after the invasion, that claimed that she lived, but that she can't distribute right now, and maybe ever again. No new information in the past year.)

I put the shoebox in my car. This was a risky option. The doors do not lock. It would suck if someone stole all of my needles, band-aids, and alcohol wipes. The estrogen's the only thing it'd be troublesome to replace. And I need some. You inject estrogen once every five days, and the fifth day is sort of a lucid, fitful mush. It's analagous to a period from an endocrinological standpoint. I am on my period right now. The medication that brings me, suddenly, all at once, to peak ovulation-type mood, is hidden in my bra. I can't inject, until the cops search my place and come up empty. Tranny periods are supposed to last one day, once every five days. Evens out, kinda, get it? I'm past a day right now. I remember, once, in June of 2021, I ran out for a little less than a month. Something like a three week period. I think if I suddenly had no source, and no hope of a source, I wouldn't even have to bother killing myself. I'd just sort of melt.

I think PSafe can't search your person. I'm not really sure, they didn't last time, when I was 16 and crying. I can already tell, though, that if they try to lay a finger on me when I'm holding cargo this precious, that I will wail like a banshee, and run away. I will be tackled to the ground, by a man who is larger and faster than me, and my 36A bra will be ripped off, vile vials flung outward, clearly visible. I'll lay there, frozen. I don't know what comes next. I feel like I'm going to die. 


"The Turing Test"

Alan Turing was born to London bureaucrats in 1912. His most well-known contribution to the discipline of Computer Science is the Turing Machine. This hypothetical object consists of an infinite roll of tape with an infinite number of cells, and one “head” in position 0. Each cell can hold one symbol (which can be as simple as 0 or 1), and the machine in sum is in one of a finite number of “states”. Based on the current symbol and state, the machine writes a symbol, then moves left, right, or halts. This theoretical model helped to settle the Entscheidungsproblem (which is very related to Godel's Incompleteness Theorem), and still serves as the basis for Turing-Completeness (alongside Lambda Calculus). 

Turing lays out a simplified version of this in the paper, which he calls a “Discrete State Machine”. He also cracked the Enigma code, helping to turn the tide of WWII, and invented the Turing Test. Turing acknowledges in the first couple of pages of “Computing Machinery And Intelligence” this reading that consciousness is immeasurable, and that there isn’t a reasonable way to prove that something is or isn’t conscious. Instead, Turing proposes that a machine can “think” when it can successfully fool a conscious being into thinking that it has consciousness. The layout of the test has three participants: A, B, and C. The arbiter, C, may interrogate A or B, who can respond with typeset answers. If C cannot tell who is machine and who is human out of A and B, the machine has passed the test.

Turing then goes over many objections to the concept of AI: "machines that can think". The mathematical argument is due to Godel's Incompleteness Theorem. It shows that all sufficiently powerful formal systems possess undecidable statements, which cannot be conclusively determined by the axioms held within them. The essential mathematical construct that shows this is a self-referential statement, which is sort of like “this statement is false”, a recursive "grey goo" for logic. Turing's contribution to this revelation. Turing, with his hypothetical machine, showed that a discrete state machine has inherent limitations. 

It is then argued that humans do not possess this disability, although Turing disagrees with that final inference. I do as well, as I subscribe to the notion that the brain is finite and enumerable, and that such a process may think. However, I don't believe this counters the theological objection: that a soulless machine inherently cannot think. Turing argues that an omnipotent God may bestow a soul upon rocks and clay (like in Eden), or some sufficiently complex formal system that He notices and deems "alive" in the same way He does a human. Turing also argues that this line of reasoning has generally fallen flat in the past, citing Copernicus. These arguments, plus a slew of others, lead Turing to suggest his test as an explicit benchmark for AI researchers to strive toward.

Turing then lays out some predictions for the future of Machine Learning, most of which ring very true today. He correctly identifies that, as opposed to a massive store of information, the goal should be to create childlike, learning algorithms. In the era of unsupervised learning, it is prescient to hear that “An important feature of a learning machine is that its teacher will often be very largely ignorant of quite what is going on inside, although he may still be able to some extent to predict his pupil’s behaviour”.

The first program to pass a version of the Turing Test was ELIZA, in 1966. Joseph Weizenbaum modeled the chatbot after a psychiatrist, and despite its simplicity it fooled many interrogators. This model has been criticized as overly reliant on undiscerning interrogators for success. The Loebner Prize was an annual competition that began in the ‘90s, holding a Turing test every year on state-of-the-art AI programs. When the competition stopped in 2020, the main prize (given to a program which successfully fools the judges) had still never been claimed. The Turing Test has been relevant to AI for about half a century, and will likely continue to be for much longer. Turing died in 1954, forced to take estrogen by the British government until he committed suicide by poisoned apple, or perhaps was murdered, depending on who you believe.